# ADG_Part_Distribution
---

The ADG partitioning model separates the non-phytoplankton absorption coefficient, a<sub>dg</sub>, into the chromophoric dissolved organic matter (CDOM) absorption coefficient, a<sub>g</sub>(λ), and depigmented particulate absorption coefficient, a<sub>d</sub>. The model utilizes the input of a<sub>dg</sub>(λ) specified over a particular wavelength range with one of two predefined libraries of spectral shape functions (One library is defined from 350 to 700 nm in 1 nm increments and the second library is defined from 400 to 700 nm in 1 nm increments) to decompose a<sub>dg</sub>. The complete development and validation of the ADG partitioning model will be described in [Kehrli et al., (In Prep)]. The presented version of the ADG partitioning model source code is in MATLAB file format. In this version of the code, we introduced some changes with the primary purpose of streamlining the structure of the code and facilitate its application by users.

This README document provides information about the files within the ADG_Part_Distribution repository.

---

## ADG_part.m:
ADG partitioning model to partition a<sub>dg</sub>(λ) into a<sub>g</sub>(λ) and a<sub>d</sub>(λ). Returns a<sub>g</sub>(λ) and a<sub>d</sub>(λ). See supporting documentation for further details.

## ADG_part_test.m:
Script which tests ADG_part.m on one sample input of spectral a<sub>dg</sub>(λ). The code implements the model with each predefined spectral shape function library to determine a<sub>g</sub>(λ) and a<sub>d</sub>(λ).

## ADG_part_test_run.xls:
Spreadsheet containing the input and resulting output data obtained from the application of the ADG_part function on one sample input to determine a<sub>g</sub>(λ) and a<sub>d</sub>(λ). The file is the original output file generated by ADG_part_test.m.

## UVVIS_lib.mat:
Library of spectral shape functions defined from the near-ultraviolet through the visible spectral region (from 350 to 700 nm with a 1 nm spectral interval). See the supporting publication (in prep) for further details about the formation of the library.

## VIS_lib.mat:
Library of spectral shape functions defined in the visible spectral region (from 400 to 700 nm with a 1 nm spectral interval). See the supporting publication (in prep) for further details about the formation of the library.

## adg_cor_LUT.mat:
Look-up tables (LUTs) necessary to run and perform corrections in ADG_ext.m. The structure contains two fields to perform the short-wavelength low signal a<sub>g</sub>(λ) correction, and the a<sub>d</sub>(λ) bias corrections described in Tables 3 and 4 of the reference manuscript. See ADG_ext.m function documentation for further details about the .mat file.

---

Contributors: Matthew Kehrli, Dariusz Stramski, Rick A. Reynolds, and Ishan Joshi\
Contacts: Matthew Kehrli (mdkehrli@ucsd.edu | mdkehrli@gmail.com), Dariusz Stramski (dstramski@ucsd.edu), Rick Reynolds(rreynolds@ucsd.edu), Ishan Joshi(dstramski@ucsd.edu)\
Ocean Optics Research Laboratory, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California San Diego

---
